A new way to monitor your vehicle, OBD-2GO! (subject to change) - Team 16
1. Team info:
Owen Koster,
Peyton DuPont
Tiernan Flanagan-Caldwell
Silas Jones
   
   The main method of communication is Discord
   
2. Product description


Abstract:
A notorious source of headache for drivers has always been the dreaded check engine light. When it comes on, it leaves you with the anxiety of knowing something might be terribly wrong with your vehicle – Or it could be nothing. The OBD-2GO aims to make this system more transparent so drivers don’t have to worry about what might be wrong with their vehicle. The OBD-2GO will be a system embedded into your vehicle that will actively monitor and warn you of issues with your vehicle in a more detailed manner than a simple check engine light. It will also enable you to monitor and record vehicle parameters while driving, so that you can know what shows signs of failure before the problem becomes much more expensive.


Goal:
Develop software that connects to the user's vehicle to receive live updates on desired vehicle sensors and diagnostic codes.


Current practices:
Currently requires an OBD-2 scanner or mechanic diagnostic tool, which are expensive and difficult to use.


Novelty:
Our software would be more user-friendly, with the end goal of being an embedded system inside the user's vehicle.


Effects:
Will provide more accessible monitoring of vehicle health, lower barrier to entry compared to other products on market


Technical approach:
Python-obd to communicate with the vehicle, ELM327-emulator to emulate a vehicle, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to build the user interface. 




Risks:
Learning curve of gui and OBD-2 libraries
Misjudging complexity of tasks leading to time loss. 
Possible incompatibilities with certain vehicles or other technologies. 




Main Features:
Ability to show diagnostic codes while driving in an intuitive manner, with more serious codes being given priority. 
A driving mode that only displays data to the user and a parked mode that will allow the user to configure the software. 
Ability for the user to configure the data displayed based on available sensors while in park mode. 
Ability to track diagnostics over time to compare and visualize
Save driving data to log


Stretch Goals:
Maintenance interval tracker that keeps track of standard maintenance items such as oil change intervals, and user-defined intervals for different maintenance items. 
Develop app for mobile devices
Depending on limitations, contribute to python-OBD library
Include suggested fixes to problems